##### StepMania 0.97

- Bug fix: Songs with same title no longer change positions while scrolling.
- Bug fix: Wrong group name for DWI files in the Songs folder.
- Bug fix: Fixed a problem that caused the music to become out of sync if many sound effect are played. This was causing the song to become out of sync near the end. Note that this change makes the music much more accurate, and some BMS files may be out of sync if they appeared in sync before.
- Bug fix: Dancing waits 2 seconds before starting music playback. This allows some slower systems to catch up.
- Bug fix: Little now works correctly. It is accessible from the PlayerOptions menu.
- Optimization: Lower priority for movie decoding, which is a major speed boost on slower computers.
- Change: Freeze arrow scoring now matches DDR MAX. The start of a freeze arrow is judged as other steps are (perfect, great, good, etc). Missing the start of a freeze will should break your combo, but NG'ing the freeze arrow will not.
- New feature: Basic song statistics tracking. Times played, top score, top combo, and top grade are shown on SelectSong screen.
- New feature: Assist tick, accessible from the SongOptions menu.
- New feature: Music Rate, accessible from the SongOptions menu. You can speed up or slow down the rate of music playback. Great for practicing hard step patterns.
- New feature: Freeze arrow scores are now shown on the Results screen.
- Change: Arrow ghost now appear different depending on the combo length (roughly matches DDR MAX).
- Change: Added some animation to the Results screen.
- Change: Revamped input mapping to allow assignment and clearing of specific slots.\nCheck out the background movie for Festival Japan included in the zip. It matches the static background very well.