---
title: "sm-ssc Private Beta Wave 1.3 | 20100106"
---

20100105
--------
* [LifeMeterBattery] Instead of using various hardcoded values, make them metrics.
  BatteryBlinkTime (float), BatteryP*X/Y and NumLivesP*X/Y metrics added.
* [GameSoundManager] use the sound's fade in and out times instead of the
  hardcoded fade in (1.5sec) and out (0.3sec) times.

20100101
--------
* [GrooveRadar] run commands on RadarValueMapP* so we can color it again
* [Song.cpp] Make AutoGen on Pump a bit more bearable by only AutoGenerating
  Medium difficulty for HalfDoubles steps.

20091229
--------
* [GameState] new Lua bindings: JoinPlayer(pn), UnjoinPlayer(pn), and
  GetSongPercent(fBeat)

20091227
--------
* [ScreenSelectMusic] Allow un-selecting the song if two part selection is
  enabled (press back). Only works if all human players have not chosen steps
  yet. (If a player has chosen steps and the other wants to change the song,
  the other player has to cancel his step selection.)
* [NoteSkinManager] New Lua binding NOTESKIN:DoesNoteSkinExist(sName) for
  finding if the specified noteskin exists in the current gametype.

20091226
--------
* New Lua binding: NOTESKIN:GetNoteSkinNames(), which returns a table of all
  noteskins for the current gametype.

20091225
--------
* New Lua bindings for Profile: GetTotalSessions(), GetTotalSessionSeconds(),
  GetTotalGameplaySeconds()

20091221
--------
* Support "converge" as an alias for "centered" since some courses use it.

20091220
--------
* [EditMenu] new metric TextBannerType
* Fixed issue 38 (Servers line in ScreenNetworkOptions)

20091219
--------
* Make it possible to change the alpha of the center of the groove radar [shakesoda]
* [ScreenSelectMusic] make profile load with late join on. [AJ]
* Fix OS hotkey issues by invalidating input on ScreenEdit while meta keys
  (cmd or winkey) are being held. [shakesoda]