---
title: "sm-ssc Private Beta Wave 1.1 | 20091208"
---
Theme-related bugfixes aren't listed here, usually.
See the sm-ssc bugtracker at http://ssc.ajworld.net/sm-ssc/bugtracker/ for more
information on bugs, feature requests, and the status of both.

In addition to the bugfixes, the following changes have been made:

20091208
--------
Refresh the metrics when changing the gametype. Fixes an issue where changing
the gametype causes the DifficultyList/StepsDisplayList to not show anything.

20091207
--------
* [Character.cpp] fix GetModelPath() Lua binding.
* [Sprite.cpp] add GetState() and GetNumStates() Lua bindings.

20091206
--------
Implement a patch to support modern versions of ffmpeg.
(See http://old.stepmania.com/forums/showthread.php?t=21434 for more info.)

Petr Baudis (3):
	video.m4: Add libswscale checks.
	MovieTexture_FFMpeg: Port img_convert to libswscale method.
	MovieTexture_Theora: Port img_convert to libswscale method.

David Santamaría Rogado (howl) (12):
	video.m4: Simplify FFMpeg checks.
	ArchHooks_Unix: Correct ffmpeg include.
	MovieTexture_FFMpeg: Add and correct ffmpeg necessary includes.
	MovieTexture_FFMpeg: Replace avcodec_build() with avcodec_version(), avcodec_build() now doesn't exists and avcodec_version() has always return the same value of avcodec_build().
	MovieTexture_FFMpeg: Replace avcodec::offset_t type with long long type to complain the new FFMpeg API .
	MovieTexture_FFMpeg: Corrected seek component of RageProtocol to complain the new FFMpeg, if not videos with malformed headers fails to play.
	MovieTexture_FFMpeg: Fix compilation warning of RageProtocol.
	MovieTexture_FFMpeg: Add destruction conditions for swscale context to avoid possible crashes.
	MovieTexture_FFMpeg: Add initialization conditions for swscale context to avoid possible unused memory if there is no garbage collector and improve performance.
	MovieTexture_Theora: Add and correct ffmpeg necessary includes.
	MovieTexture_Theora: Add destruction conditions for swscale context to avoid possible crashes.
	MovieTexture_Theora: Add initialization conditions for swscale context to avoid possible unused memory if there is no garbage collector and improve performance.

20091205
--------
* [Player.cpp/.h] new metric: ComboUnderField. It should be true by default if
  you want to match how StepMania 4 does it. [AJ]

20091204
--------
* Fix a sm-ssc bug where you couldn't change course difficulties.

20091203
--------
* Two new GameCommands:
 * fademusic,fVolume,fDuration (though I wish fDuration was how long to fade the
   music for; instead the fade lengths are consts in GameSoundManager.)
 * pushscreen,sScreenName (though it doesn't push screens like I had thought it
   would. maybe I'm doing it wrong.) [AJ]

20091202
--------
* Profile name max length changed from 12 to 32 characters. [AJ]
* Modified character camera values. [shakesoda]

20091201
--------
* [ScreenSelectMusic] new metric SamplePreviewMusicMode, which has one of two
  possible values as of r127. 'SamplePreviewMusicMode_Normal' is business as
  usual (sample music plays), while 'SampleMusicPreviewMode_ScreenMusic'
  disables song samples, using /{theme}/Sounds/ScreenSelectMusic loop music.*
  as the file to play. No, this doesn't support Lua music yet. [AJ]