sm-ssc v1.0 Public Beta 1 | 20100301
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This represents the first public version of sm-ssc. The previously publicly
available release was not the official public beta version, but was released
for more people to get their hands on it for testing.

sm-ssc v1.0 Public Beta 1 has 111 Lua bindings that you currently can't find in
StepMania 4 alpha versions as of 2010/02/28. That doesn't include the various
helper functions available to you in scripts via the fallback theme, either. :)

20100228
--------
* Applied stutter fix hack by Henke37
  (src: http://www.pasteall.org/11353/diff)
* [ScreenPackages] Some strings that were once hardcoded are now not:
  "VisitURL", "DL @ %d KB/s", "Failed.", "Invalid URL.", "File Already Exists",
  "Failed to connect.", "Header Sent.", "Waiting for header."
* Allow multiple random modifiers to be listed in RandomModifiers.txt.
  The random number generation for RandomModifiers has also changed.

20100227
--------
* [GameState] add GetCurMusicSeconds binding. Values can be negative,
  so watch out when using.

20100226
--------
* rework some bindings to match SM4:
  GetBPMAtBeat, GetBeatFromElapsedTime, and GetElapsedTimeFromBeat have
  moved from Song to TimingData.
  If you were using these against the Song, they will fail in your theme.

* [TimingData] GetStops only returns Stops now (and not Delays).
  If you want Delays, there is a new GetDelays() binding, which works
  like GetStops.

20100225
--------
* Added ToastyDropped message. [Midiman]

20100223
--------
* [Player] CheckpointsFlashOnHold metric added. Fixes issue 16.

20100222
--------
* [CodeDetector] NextBannerGroup and NextBannerGroup2 were previously used
  for MusicBannerWheel, which is currently not used in sm-ssc. These codes
  have been changed to NextGroup and PrevGroup. The codes switch between
  groups as you would expect.

20100219
--------
* sm4svn r28313: don't filter NoteSkins at a PrefsManager/NoteSkinManager level.
  Leave the NoteSkin sorting and filtering up to the theme. [Chris Danford]
* load lighting from ActorFrame xnodes (in addition to Lua commands)
* add Cancel command on ScreenWithMenuElements, so other things can react
  to Screen cancel.

20100218
--------
* Added Fonts/ScreenReloadSongs LoadingText, making the text on
  ScreenReloadSongs themeable.
* Added Fonts/NoteField MeasureNumber, ScreenGameplay debug,
  ScreenGameplaySyncMachine SyncInfo.

20100216
--------
sm4svn r28309: Fix crash in course mode, another (and, from the looks of it,
  the last) dumb bug this block o' hack caused [vyhd]

20100215
--------
Some more sm4svn commits:
* r28304: read-ahead tweaks; support os read cache flushing [Glenn Maynard]
* r28306: experimental code for storing Lua data in Profiles and
  converting between XML and Lua data. [vyhd]

20100214
--------
sm4svn catchup... Noticing a pattern?
* r28293: add RageFile::GetFD for specialized file handling [Glenn Maynard]
  (FD meaning File Descriptor -aj)
* r28294: "remove absolutely pointless revision tags that cause [aclocal.m4 and
  ltmain.sh in libmad] to constantly show up as modified" [Glenn Maynard]
* r28295: [fix] copy and paste error [Glenn Maynard]
* r28296: Experimental: hint the OS caching to avoid skips when starting/looping
  movies [Glenn Maynard]
* r28297: fix a bug, then disable the whole thing for now due to dup()
  braindamage; Linux version works fine (posix_fadvise) [Glenn Maynard]
* r28299: fix m_iFilePos updating on seek [Glenn Maynard]
* r28300: Added theme metric for Routine noteskins (to enforce separate noteskins
  per player, or at least conscious thought toward that issue), added fix for
  ScreenEdit only handling switching players on dance-routine [vyhd]
 (editor's note: the new metrics are RoutineNoteSkinP1 and RoutineNoteSkinP2 -aj)
* r28303: make sure routine always writes as two charts, even if only one has
  steps; DEBUG_ASSERT -> ASSERT [Glenn Maynard]

20100213
--------
Even more sm4svn catchup:
* r28277: remove preferred group filtering (leaving the setting in for later use) [Glenn Maynard]
* r28279: simplify SongUtil::GetStepsTypeAndDifficultyFromSortOrder [Glenn Maynard]
* r28281: fix SSM crashes when selecting a song with only one
  player enabled [Glenn Maynard]
* r28284: add Style::GetUsesCenteredArrows (doubles + routine)
* r28285: sanity check (on ScreenGameplay) [Glenn Maynard]
* various commits related to routine mode [Glenn Maynard]
  (specifically, r28282,r28286,r28287,r28289,r28290)
* r28291: fix pump routine right side DownLeft not drawn [Chris Danford]
* r28292: easier debug stepping [Chris Danford]

20100211
--------
sm-ssc:
* Fix a crash with AutoKeysounds.

Playing catch-up with sm4svn. This happens a lot.
* r28273: "Added more logical handling of Routine mode selection
  (see source code comments); hopefully, we can write up a more standard
  solution to this later, since this is kind of a hack" [vyhd]
* r28274: course type param to GetCustomDifficulty is optional [Glenn Maynard]
* r28276: Lua binding for MeterDisplay. Allow setting and changing the
  width dynamically. Phase out the "StreamWidth" node property; set it with
  SetStreamWidth instead. [Glenn Maynard]

20100210
--------
* Possible fix for handling of delays in autoplay. May also fix things
  elsewhere (editor?), but that is untested. Autoplay seemed to work well
  with Uprock (the song), so I have no complaints. -aj
* Glenn started to revert some of Frieza's code in sm4:
 * "Personally, there is an assert for checking if the noteskin is not empty.
   Based on other code, it seems like the noteskin would have to be set
   somewhere else. If this is a problem somewhere else, find where it's a
   problem and don't patch this function." -aj re: NoteSkinManager.cpp r2098
 * r28076 "Adds metric options to flash the lifebar when a note is hit"
   My comment on why I did this: "Any competent themer can make a lifebar
   flash when a note is hit. Just hook something up to a JudgmentMesageCommand,
   read the params, and go from there. If it doesn't work on
   StreamDisplay/LifeMeterBar, then GO CODE YOUR OWN LIFE METER IN LUA!!
   Seriously there are enough publicly available references (moonlight,
   optical, NCEvo if you want to go back in time to see a different type
   of life meter) that claiming 'oh I don't know how to' isn't an excuse.
   Please actually put in effort and seek examples when you try stuff
   kthx i told you this would be ranty" -aj

20100209
--------
* sm4svn r28266: Fix GAMESTATE:GetCurrentSteps() only returns single-player
  steps for any difficulty [vyhd]

20100207
--------
* sm4svn r28264: subtractive blend (OpenGL only for now) [Glenn Maynard]
  (D3D version untested, I'm unsure of the behavior -aj)

20100204
--------
* [MusicWheel] add RecentSongsToShow metric.

20100203
--------
* "First pass of toasty message, hopefully this doesn't break!" [Midiman]

20100202
--------
* [Course.cpp] HasTimedMods() now actually checks for timed mods
  (technically non-global) instead of being a clone of HasMods().
* [Player.cpp] add MAX_HOLD_LIFE/[Player] MaxHoldLife metric

20100130
--------
* "various commits from wolfman from the hg repo; mostly cleanup aside from
  rev. 79071b3442, which adds a new metric. (that change is forthcoming)"

20100128
--------
* Add DELAYS to list of known .sm tags [Wolfman; sm-ssc hg ebb2bda5b4]
* fix Windows icons for compiling on VS2003 and VS2005
* add ScoreKeeperShared.cpp/.h to VS2k3 project

20100127
--------
* sm4svn r28259: Change OptionsList behavior to pop menu on Select and
  default to Exit only on SELECT_ONE [vyhd]

20100126
--------
* Add ScreenGameplayShared, ScoreKeeperShared to Makefile.am