---
title: "sm-ssc v1.0 Release Candidate 2 | 20100822"
---

20100821
--------
* Add roll and twirl from OpenITG [vyhd]
* Ignore invalid notes in KSF files [Daisuke Master]

20100817
--------
* [GraphDisplay] Allow Line to be themed via metrics.

20100815
--------
* [GameCommand] Remove pushscreen command
* [ScreenOptionsMasterPrefs] Reset Judge and Life values to the ones used in SM4
* [ScreenNetEvaluation] add Score, Grade, PlayerOptions params to
  UpdateNetEvalStats message
* [PlayerState] add GetHealthState Lua binding
* [Player] fix a warning [shakesoda]
* [Player] Change combo coloring logic in course mode:
  "PERCENT_UNTIL_COLOR_COMBO refers to how long through the course the combo
  color should appear (scaling to the number of songs). (This may not be
  desired behavior, however.)" Let me know if I should add an alternate way to
  specify course combo color logic.  -aj
* [ScreenRanking] Cleanup and un-hardcode shadowlength
* [ThemeManager] add GetSelectableThemeNames Lua binding; returns a table of
  themes as strings.

20100814
--------
sm4.0:
 * r28482: number measures starting with 0 (makes the mental conversion
   between the .SM and the editor much easier) [Chris Danford]

20100811
--------
sm-ssc:
 * [Player] Implement a hack for miniholds until a proper solution can be found.
 * [ActorSound] Fix Play() so that stop and pause are usable. [Daisuke Master]

sm4.0:
 * r28455: fix EFFECT_BOUNCE, give particles a start position uniformly
   distributed across the screen [Chris Danford]
 * r28456: change flip effects to use degrees, not radians [Chris Danford]

20100810
--------
[ScreenNetEvaluation]
 * Replace hardcoded rainbow effect with UserTier02OrBetterCommand.
 * Added Difficulty and Steps param to UpdateNetEvalStats message. The
   beginning of custom-themable online stuff begins.

[ScreenNetSelectMusic]
 * Started to port SampleMusicPreviewMode from ScreenSelectMusic.
 * Changed MusicWheel metrics to read from OnlineMusicWheel instead.
 * Added section, roulette, and random music (not used yet).
 * Stop the music when reaching a section.

20100808
--------
* [ScreenDebugOverlay] force sm-ssc to read the OnCommand for ButtonText,
  FunctionText and PageText.

20100807
--------
* [ScreenManager] add AddNewScreenToTop Lua binding.

20100804
--------
* [ScreenDebugOverlay] add PageStartX and PageSpacingX metrics.

20100801
--------
* sm5svn r28402: Fix compile on some systems. [Steve Checkoway]

20100731
--------
* Add "package" to StepMania's Lua. [shakesoda]

20100727
--------
* Allow editing of a Song's #GENRE tag within the editor.

20100726
--------
* Fix |D| tag handling in Direct Move KSFs [Daisuke Master]
* Fix up alternate mappings for kb7 [shakesoda]
* [MusicWheel] Add RemindWheelPositions metric. [Daisuke Master]

20100725
--------
* [MusicWheel] JumpToNext/PrevGroup functions tweaked [juanelote]
* [MusicWheel] Added OnlyShowActiveSection metric. Only shows one group at
  time. Use the Next/Previous Group codes to switch groups. [Daisuke Master]
* Allowed group changing via GameButtons as well. [Daisuke Master]
* [SongManager] Added GetSongGroupByIndex function. [juanelote]
  (to-do: Give this a Lua binding. -aj)