---
title: "sm-ssc v1.0 Release Candidate 1 | 20100627"
---

20100627
--------
* [NotesLoaderKSF] Support reading of #PLAYER and #MUSICINTRO/#INTRO tags in
  KSF files. [based on code by Aldo_MX]
* Adjust KB7 draw order which still seems wrong, change noteskin.
  Use default-p2 and join as player 2 to play with original spacing. [shakesoda]

20100626
--------
* Fixed a bug with urlnoexit GameCommand always returning the "Could not
  launch web browser" message.
* Removed some untested/non-working Model Lua bindings.
* Only autogen Medium difficulty steps for Routine modes.
* Added PlayerState:GetPlayerOptionsArray() Lua binding.
* Revert a commit from 20091219 regarding profile loading on ScreenSelectMusic.

20100623
--------
* Implement the last remaining SampleMusicPreviewMode: StartToPreview.
  This one requires [ScreenSelectMusic] TwoPartConfirmsOnly=true in the
  metrics to work correctly.
* Added Actor:Real(), which makes graphics their true size at
  any resolution. [shakesoda]

20100619
--------
* [HighScore] add GetGrade() Lua binding.

20100618
--------
* Allow RShift+Print Screen to take uncompressed screenshots.

20100614
--------
* <del>Attempt to fix screenshot numbering bug. Seems to work, if testing is
  any indication.</del> (Did not work.)

20100612
--------
* sm4svn r28359-r28364. [Chris Danford]
  Notable commit logs:
  * r28359: "fix BackgroundChange color values being written with commas.
    Commas are a reserved character that seprate values in a tag.
    Caret was used to separate RGBA values in a color in this case and
    NotesLoaderSM already handles that."
  * r28361: "normalize colors in BGCHANGES to HTML colors, to fix weird escaping"

20100610
--------
* Fix Rave/Battle crashes, allowing it to work again.
* Chris Danford changed galopin's code for detecting pump mats.
* [Actor] add basezoom, basezoomz, GetBaseZoomY(), GetBaseZoomZ(), and
  GetGlow() Lua bindings
* [Screen] add GetScreenType() Lua binding.
* howl's patch for fixing LowLevelWindow
  (stepmania4-fullscreen-focus-lost-and-restore-resolution2.patch)
  http://old.stepmania.com/forums/showthread.php?t=23693

20100608
--------
* sm4svn r28359: fix BackgroundChange color values being written with commas.
  Commas are a reserved character that seprate values in a tag. Caret was
  used to separate RGBA values in a color in this case and NotesLoaderSM
  already handles that. [Chris Danford]

20100605
--------
* Add Windows 7 and Windows Vista as identified OS versions in DebugInfoHunt.

20100603
--------
* [MusicWheel] If AutoSetStyle is on and Autogen is off, some songs with valid
  steps may be missing from the wheel. Re-add them by checking for every
  playable StepsType when AutoSetStyle is on.
  Fixes issue 147: http://ssc.ajworld.net/sm-ssc/bugtracker/view.php?id=147
* Fix a crash that occured when changing themes that had differing numbers
  of song/course group colors. (Yes, finally.)

20100602
--------
* [Actor] add addrotationx, addrotationy, addrotationz bindings/commands
* [GameCommand] Don't allow battle/rave with Routine
  (StyleType_TwoPlayersSharedSides).
* Reordered ScreenEdit's main menu (escape) slightly.
* Expand various floats from 3 decimal places to 6 (experimental) [Midiman]
* [BPMDisplay] add RandomText metric for theming the "..." that appears when
  BPMs don't cycle and MinBPM == -1.

20100601
--------
* [MusicWheel] added UseSectionsWithPreferredGroup metric
  (allows sm-ssc to display all song groups if you use the songgroup
  GameCommand, instead of no groups.)
* [Character] add GetCharacterDir() and GetCharacterID() Lua bindings.