---
title: "sm-ssc v1.2.4 | 20110327"
---

20110327
--------
* Fix Gameplay Footer not showing up over arrows. [AJ]

20110326
--------
* [NotesLoaderSM, NotesWriterSSC] Officially add the #WARPS tag. The negative
  tricks of the past are now officially standardized. Please tell us about
  files which have broken sync or are otherwise unplayable/incorrect.
  [AJ, theDtTvB, Wolfman2000]

20110320
--------
* [PlayerOptions] Added SetNoteSkin(string) Lua binding. [AJ]
* [PlayerOptions] Tons of new Lua bindings. See the Lua documentation for all
  of them, there's too many to print here. [AJ]

20110317
--------
* [ScreenEdit] Fix bug number 222, where Steps disappeared if they weren't
  saved. [AJ, Wolfman2000]
* [ScreenOptionsEdit] Fix bug number 186, where people could try to edit or
  share songs when they didn't have any. [Wolfman2000]
* [ScreenEdit] Add a metric to switch Ctrl+Up and Ctrl+Down. This is for
  easier compatibility with prior versions of SM. It defaults to false.
  [Wolfman2000]
* [ScreenEdit] Fix bug number 65, where Steps disappeared if they were
  involved with the Compress or Expand options. [Wolfman2000]

20110316
--------
* [NotesLoaderSMA] Allow for preliminary support of loading SMA files. This
  will become better once Split Timing is in place. [Wolfman2000]
* [NotesLoaderBMS] Improve BMS loading: [theDtTvB]
    * Ignore time signatures before the notes for the steps to be more
      synchronized.
    * Load BPM changes properly. Many songs with BPM changes no longer freeze.
* [Player] Stop playing the keysound when letting go of hold notes. [theDtTvB]
* [NoteDataUtil] Make keysounded notes that can't be inserted when reducing
  number of tracks autokeysound, means less missing sounds when playing
  7-key BMS on dance-single. [theDtTvB]

20110313
--------
* [NotesWriterSM] Allow for either the #DESCRIPTION or #CREDIT tags to be used
  for the .sm format's description token. [Wolfman2000]
* [ScreenEdit] Add Tap Note Cycling to allow inputting all of the taps. Use the
  n and m keys to switch between taps, mines, lifts, and fakes. The way to make
  holds and rolls are still the same as before; hold 1-0 (plus shift for rolls)
  and then drag up or down as needed. [Wolfman2000]