---
title: "sm-ssc v1.2.2 | 20110220"
---

20110219
--------
* [BPMDisplay] Added FormatString metric. [AJ]
* [GrooveRadar] Changed "Label#OffsetX/Y" metrics to "Label#X/Y". [AJ]
* [GrooveRadar] Fixed RadarFrame from not running commands on RadarFrame base. [AJ]
* [GrooveRadar] Removed RadarFrameTweenOnScreen and RadarFrameTweenOffScreen metrics. (Themers: Use RadarFrameOnCommand and RadarFrameOffCommand instead) [AJ]
* [GrooveRadar] Removed non-working PreDelayOnCommand, PostDelayOnCommand. (Themers: Use Label#OnCommand and Label#OffCommand instead.) [AJ]
* [ScreenOptions] Renamed "GetCurrentRow" Lua binding to "GetCurrentRowIndex". [AJ]
* [OptionRow] Added FirstItemGoesDown(), GetChoiceInRowWithFocus(PlayerNumber),
  GetName(), GetNumChoices(), GetRowTitle(), HasFocus(PlayerNumber),
  and OneChoiceForAllPlayers() Lua bindings. [AJ]
* [ScreenOptions] Added Change message (params: RowIndex, ChangedToExit). [AJ]
* [ScreenOptions] Added FocusedItemEndsScreen(PlayerNumber) and GetOptionRow(int)
  Lua bindings. [AJ]
* [ScreenPlayerOptions] now derives from ScreenOptions, allowing it to get the
  new ScreenOptions bindings. [AJ]

20110218
--------
* [WheelBase] Added SetOpenSection Lua binding. [AJ]

20110217
--------
* Allowed refreshing of Fonts again. [AJ]

20110214
--------
* Added #CHARTSTYLE to .ssc format, mainly meant for Pad/Keyboard distinctions. [AJ]

20110213
--------
* Life Difficulty 4 is now as difficult as Life 6 was. [AJ]
  Change name of the life difficulty options:
  Old: 1,   2,   3,   4,   5,   6,    7
  New: 1.2, 1.0, 0.8, 0.6, 0.4, 0.33, 0.25

20110212
--------
* [PlayerOptions] Added metrics to allow changing how often random modifiers 
  activate in the proper setting. At this time, the mods to be activated have 
  NOT been changed. [Wolfman2000]
* [ArrowEffects] Allow the Boomerang, Expand, Tipsy, Drunk, Tornado, Beat, and
  Mini modifiers to be customized by metrics. As usual, change at your own
  risk here. [Wolfman2000]
* Started the process of doxygen'ing the code. Goodness knows we need more
  documentation on here. For the most part, don't expect comments on
  particular files, though this may change. [Wolfman2000]
* [TimingData] Fix getting a Stop or Delay at a row if one of each occupies
  the same row. This may need some extra testing. [Wolfman2000]

20110211
--------
* Introduced the .ssc file format for future features and expansion. All .sm
  files will still work, and will still be generated when saved in the editor.
  At this point, saving to the DWI format is being deprecated. [Wolfman2000]