---
title: "sm-ssc v1.2.3 | 20110323"
---

20110309
--------
* [MusicWheelItem] Added Label param, renamed SongGroup param to Text. [AJ]

20110308
--------
* [WheelBase] Add GetCurrentIndex and GetNumItems Lua bindings. [AJ]
* [ScreenSelectMusic] Add GetMusicWheel Lua binding. [AJ]
* Added custom MusicWheel items. [AJ]
* [MeterDisplay] Add Lua binding. "Allow setting and changing the width
  dynamically. Phase out the "StreamWidth" node property; set it with
  SetStreamWidth instead." [Glenn Maynard]

20110305
--------
* Added #COMBOS tag to the .ssc format. [Wolfman2000]

20110302
--------
* [ScreenGameplaySyncMachine] Allow themers to use either .ssc or .sm files. [AJ]
* [ScreenHowToPlay] Allow themers to use either .ssc or .sm files. [AJ]
* [ScreenGameplay] Footer to prevent 'arrow overflow' [Midiman]

20110301
--------
* Allow Tickcount Segments to have a value of 0 to better replicate some
  charts in the Pump series. [Wolfman2000]

20110228
--------
* Add Fakes to the RadarCategories. [Wolfman2000]
* [ScreenEdit] Display the number of Lifts and Fakes in a stepchart in the
  editor. These use metrics, so the lines can be made empty in themes that
  require them. [Wolfman2000]
* [ArrowEffects] Allow for dizzy hold heads. Again, enable at your own risk.
  [Wolfman2000]
* [StepsDisplay] Allow for displaying the chart artist in a separate field.
  This defaults to false for the moment. [Wolfman2000]
* [PlayerOptions, NoteDataUtil] Add transform mods for removing lifts and
  fakes from the Notedata. This mods can disqualify of course. [Wolfman2000]

20110227
--------
* [PlayerState] The old GetPlayerOptions() binding is now GetPlayerOptionsString().
  There is a new GetPlayerOptions() binding that gets the PlayerOptions object,
  which has a GetNoteSkin() binding (and hopefully more in the future). [AJ]

20110226
--------
* [ScreenOptionsToggleSongs] The structure of this screen has now changed.
  Before, it contained the entire list of songs. Now, the main page
  (ScreenOptionsToggleSongs) holds the groups, and a sub-page
  (ScreenOptionsToggleSongsSubPage) holds the songs in each group. [AJ]

20110225
--------
* Add lifts and fakes to all Pump noteskins. [Daisuke Master, Wolfman2000]

20110224
--------
* [NotesLoaderSSC] Allowed reading of #NOTES2 again. [AJ]

20110223
--------
* [Steps] Added GetChartStyle() Lua binding. [AJ]

20110222
--------
* [ScreenEdit] Display the Player Number for Routine mode. [Wolfman2000]
* [ScreenEdit] Add format string metrics for the right hand side of the editor.
  [Wolfman2000]

20110221
--------
* Reverted ArrowSpacing back to 64 (which was the previous value).
  Please re-adjust your speed mods accordingly. [AJ]
* [OptionRow] Added GetLayoutType() and GetSelectType() Lua bindings. [AJ]
* Fix .sm-style edits not being loaded. [AJ]
* [Common] Added OperatorMenuScreen metric. [AJ]