---
title: "Not In The Groove Version 4.0.1"
---

NotITG changelog - version 4.0.1 (26/01/2020)
=============================================

### 🚨 BREAKING CHANGES

*   D3D has been removed
*   Anything that uses tanclip will behave differently
    *   Tanclip now actually clips tan waves used by modifiers. 100%+ = no tan wave.
    *   Files that used tanclip in the past have been updated by Ky\_Dash.

### 💡 New Features!

*   `FailP1MessageCommand` and P2 has been added
    *   This will also trigger with FailOff enabled when health reaches 0
*   Added `GAMESTATE:GetCurBPM() : number`
    *   Returned value will be more accurate than `GAMESTATE:GetCurBPS()*60`
*   Added `Song:GetTimingData() : table BPMs, table stops`
    *   It returns two tables, each are sorted by beat.
    *   BPMs contains the beat and the new BPM
    *   stops contains the beat and the duration of the stop in seconds
*   `Profile:GetHighScoreForSongAndSteps`, `Profile:ClearHighScoresForSongAndSteps` and `Profile:ClearHighScoresForSong` also accept a Song instead of a String as its first argument

### 🐛 Bugfixes

*   `GetEffectY` and `GetEffectZ` now returns the correct values
*   MovieTextures no longer reset when looping or when showing a static image
*   Vertex and fragment shaders behave again
*   Multiple edits with the same steps, but with different names, show up again
*   Hidden regions and note type mults are now cleared on ctrl+0
*   `UNLOCKSTEPS%d` no longer crashes on load.
*   Graph on ScreenEvaluation fits within its frame now
*   Graph on ScreenEvaluation now FINALLY properly unscales rate-mods.
*   `tipsyoffset` has been fixed
*   Report issue button on of the crash dialogs now points to the UKSRT Discord
*   `MonthToString` does bounds checking now, some more SM3.95 themes will function now
*   Combo glow resets when getting a miss
*   Entering mods menu transition has been restored
*   `StepP1MenuStartPressMessageCommand` now works in both the Editor and ScreenGameplay. (Also for `StepP2` and `Lift` instead of `Press`, naturally.)

### ⚡ Misc.

*   Increased priority of `WaveOut` for `SoundDrivers` preference (Thanks Lily/Staiain!)
    *   Everything is so smooooooth, it's almost uncanny
    *   Try playing Got More Raves on a high refresh rate monitor
*   `bumpyz` added as an alias for `bumpy`
*   Fonts created with the SM5 Texture Font Generator will now work as is
*   NotITG executable is about 190 KB smaller

### ❤️ Simply Love changes

*   Miss combo is now colored red
*   Fonts have been optimized (Thanks SENZOMODS!)
*   OverlayReadyMessageCommand trigger has been moved to a safer location
    *   This fixes certain events going haywire, resulting in crashes.
*   Modularized FailOverlay
    *   BREAKING CHANGE: config index starts at 1 now, not 0