NotITG changelog - version 4.2.0
================================

### 💡 New Features!

*   Changed how Lua errors are displayed
    *   They now point to the correct line in your xml or ini files
    *   They also tell you which file the error happened in
*   Metamods
    *   They mod your mods
    *   They can be applied only from the theme options, they can't be toggled from a simfile!
    *   The "Flip" on the v4/1-april-fools build was a metamod
    *   `metaflip`, `metainvert`, `metaorient`, `metareverse`, `metastealth`, `metadizzy`
    *   They are just for fun, so they will disqualify your score
        *   Imagine having MetaInvert on Red and Blue
*   Drag and drop songs support
    *   Drag a song folder onto the game window, the song will be loaded while the game is running!
    *   If you are in the song selection screen, the wheel will automatically go to the new song
    *   The song will be placed in `/Songs/_drag_and_drop/`
        *   Configurable in NotITGPrefs.ini: `DragAndDropSongGroup`
*   Preference `Borderless`
    *   Can be freely used with `Windowed=0` or 1!
    *   Borderless + Windowed=0 will set the screen resolution to the wanted one, as usual, but clicking outside of the game won't hide it, like a regular borderless fullscreen!
    *   Borderless + Windowed=1 will behave as usual, but the game will simply not have a border.
    *   **`DISPLAY:SetBorderless( bool )` allow simfiles to toggle this!** This is still controlled by the `AllowWindowPos` preference.
    *   If the borderless status has been changed by `DISPLAY:SetBorderless()`, it will reset at the end of the song, just like other Lua window manipulations.
    *   The status is also resetted by doing F3+8.
*   Preference `ShowComboInEditor` is fairly self explanatory!
    *   Defaults to "on", can be adjusted from the editor's `ESC` -> Preferences menu.
*   Set custom song end time via lua with `GAMESTATE:SetSongEndTime( seconds )`
*   Preference `EditorPlayModeOffset` lets you choose how much time (seconds) behind the cursor the game will start playing from when you switch from editing mode to playtest mode.
    *   Defaults to 1 to match normal StepMania behavior, but can be adjusted from the editor's `ESC` -> Preferences menu.
*   Added `ScreenReadyCommand` for gameplay
    *   Runs before the songs starts
    *   TopScreen is guaranteed to be available
    *   `xml <Layer ScreenReadyCommand="%function(self) local s = SCREENMAN:GetTopScreen() -- This will be ScreenGameplay end" />`
*   Preference `SleepCpuWhenUnfocused`
    *   Defaults to 1 (old behaviour)
    *   Disable this if you want the game to run full speed at all times, including when you switch windows/alt-tab
*   Preference `BothAtOnceAffectsDifficulties`
    *   Defaults to 1 (new behavior)
    *   If BothAtOnce is on, changing difficulty at song select will change difficulty for both players to ensure they have the same difficulty.
*   Preference `DisqualifyCover` allows you to choose whether "Cover" (Hide Background) mod disqualifies your score.
    *   Set to 1 by default, to match the existing openITG behavior
    *   Will not have any effect if `Disqualification` preference is already 0
*   Preference `FailOffForFirstStage` allows you specify whether or not the first stage of a credit has "FailOff" enabled.
*   Preference `DiscardFailOffFailedScore` allows you to not save scores that were "failed" when playing using failoff.
*   Preference `AutoDisableBothAtOnce` causes BothAtOnce to be disabled automatically on ScreenTitle init, for arcade purposes.
*   New ScreenTitleMenu Code: `BothAtOnce`, that toggles the BothAtOnce, for arcade purposes.
*   F3+0 now toggles between edit mode and song select
*   Add function `PlayerStageStats:GetCurPossibleDancePoints()`
    *   Which is very useful to calculate subtractive score in lua
*   Add functions to get/delete scores of courses
    *   `profile:GetHighScoreForCourseAndTrail(course, difficulty, stepsType)`
    *   `profile:ClearHighScoresForCourseAndTrail(course, difficulty, stepsType)`
    *   `profile:ClearHighScoresForCourse(course)`
*   Add a method to get the stepsType of a trail
    *   `trail:GetStepsType()`
*   `actor:tween(t, f)` now accepts a function
    *   `xml <Layer OnCommand="%function(self) self:tween(4, function(t) return someEase(t) end) end" />`
*   Added `GAMESTATE:OnlyOpenITGMods(true/false)`
    *   This restricts the mods to only the ones available in OpenITG
    *   Will disqualify you
*   `LUA_PATH` is now set by the game
    *   This means you can now use `dofile`, `loadfile`, etc to load .lua files
    *   From anywhere in the game, it searches in the current theme folder
    *   From within a song, the current song folder takes priority

### ⚡ Enhancements

*   Project Outfox provided some updates and enhancements
    *   Several math optimizations
    *   Library updates
    *   Render stats now show memory usage
    *   Thank you Project Outfox!
*   Theme switcher has been modified and should switch themes without error
    *   Even Simply Love based themes!
*   `ApplyModifiers` now throws a Lua error if you give it an invalid player number
*   `NOTESKIN:GetPath` does not crash the game anymore
    *   It returns the theme missing graphic if it can't find the noteskin element
*   Several memory leaks have been fixed. `bad allocation` errors should not happen anymore.
*   `DISPLAY:SetWindowPosition[AndSize]()` have been fixed for accounting window borders!
    *   They used to resize the window wrongly, e.g. having a 640x480 game could result in a 636x471 game (because it accounted for Windows 10 borders)
    *   They now resize the actual game, borderless or not!
    *   They set the position relative to the actual game, and not the window (+ borders)
        *   Their position is now accurate no matter if the game is borderless or not: the game will ALWAYS be at the same position, if we provide the same values to the methods. (So, a position of e.g. (40;40) will make the game be at the SAME place, borderless or not.)
    *   Before this change, on Exschwasion's ETERNALLY file : [Video](https://i.heysora.net/vEe25pEq.mp4)
    *   After this change (lua is unchanged): [Video](https://i.heysora.net/B66aeuLS.mp4)
*   `GAMESTATE:GetRealPath()` has been slightly tweaked for accounting specific edge cases (noticeeably with the presence of patch.zip) and should now always work no matter the setup.
*   The External memory (used by `GAMESTATE:GetExternal()` and `:SetExternal()`) got its size increased from 64 to 256.
*   The `Toasty` theme element is named
*   Lights had their indexes reverted to pre-v3.1
    *   Parallel lights has been changed to account for this
*   Song offset keys (F11/F12) in Edit mode has been swapped
    *   It now matches syncing offset in ScreenGameplay
*   Removed some very chatty log traces from FFmpeg
*   Several Edit Mode changes:
    *   Current Beat, BPM, Time and mods display in Edit Mode does not move with TopScreen anymore
        *   This means you can screen bounce as much as you want, the mods display will stay in place
    *   Actor order for Edit Mode now matches actor order in Gameplay
    *   Player 2 steps are now set, fixes errors in scripts querying both players
*   Attempts to use non-existing mods will print warnings to the Log
    *   Edit Mode will also show a SystemMessage
    *   Enable NotITGPrefs `AlwaysShowUnknownModsSystemMessage` if you want the message to be shown outside of Edit Mode as well
*   The maximum texture size's hardcoded limit has been increased from 2048 to 4096
*   doing `SetTexture` on a Shader with an invalid texture no longer crashes the game with "Nice texture, idiot."
*   Editor's "Jump to beat" text field now starts empty.
*   Score actors will no longer appear in the editor.
    *   It is still possible to unhide them with `SCREENMAN:GetTopScreen():GetChild('ScoreP1'):playcommand('Show')`
*   `BothAtOnce` being enabled counts as joint premium (one credit needed to join both sides) for coin purposes.
*   Jump between spellcards in the editor using `Alt` + `,` / `Alt` + `.`
*   `hidenoteflash` timing has been greatly improved so it's now instant.
*   `UpdateFunction` now shows a dialog on error, it also unsets the function to prevent getting stuck.
    *   Patch provided by XeroOl
*   `player:IsUsingReverse()` see whether the player is using reverse or not
    *   It's just seeing the reverse of column 0 (left in `dance`)
    *   Intended to be used by themes
*   Added `sprite:GetNumStates()`
*   Other Edit mode changes
    *   Enabling `MetaReverse` lets you edit in reverse
    *   Render distance past the receptors has been increased
    *   Scroll animations are back, but are more snappier than before
*   All non-LGPL DLLs are now embedded in the .exe

### ⤴ New Mods

*   `randomvanish` has been split into two mods, `randomize` and `vanish`, which control the two aspects of the original mod seperately.
    *   Vanish makes the arrows disappear for a bit at a spot in the middle of the screen.
    *   Randomize shuffles the notes while they are within the "invisibe" region created by Vanish.
    *   `randomvanish` is now a macro that enables both.
    *   `vanishoffset` and `randomizeoffset` controls the location where the event takes place, `randomvanishoffset` controls both simultaneously.
    *   Choose which turn mod is being applied to each player during the "randomize" event with `Player:SetRandomVanishTransform( 'swapupdown' )`.
    *   The default is `supershuffle`, to match the original `randomvanish` implementation.
    *   All existing turn modes are usable (`left`, `right`, `mirror`, `swapleftright`, `swapupdown`, `couplesmirror`, `couplesswapsides`, `shuffle`, `softshuffle`, `spookyshuffle` and `supershuffle`)
*   `scrollspeedmult<n>` multiply speed mod of a single column.
    *   does not have a non-col specific version - attempting to apply it without a specified column will just apply all col specific versions.
    *   default value is 100%. 50% is half scroll speed.
*   `zigzag<n>` and `sawtooth<n>`, sawtooth and zigzag waves are finally column specific.
    *   these naturally come with accompanying periods and offsets, i.e. `zigzagperiod<n>` and `zigzagoffset<n>`
*   `dizzy<n>`, `twirl<n>` and `roll<n>` join the column-specific party! (notes that rotate in z, y and x axis over time as they approach, ending with a rotation of 0 at the targets)
*   `manualnoteflash` has a much better alias that more accurately describes what it does: `hidenotepress`. It's also now column specific.
*   `drunk<n>` in all axes, along with all associated period, spacing, speed and offset is now column specific.
*   `beat<n>` in all axes, along with all associated mult, period, cap and offset is now column specific.
*   `boost<n>` and `brake<n>` are now column specific.
*   Added aliases `tanbumpyz`, `tanbumpyzsize`,`tanbumpyzperiod`, `tanbumpyzoffset`
*   Added `tanbumpysize<n>`, `tanbumpyzsize<n>`, `tanbumpyperiod<n>`, `tanbumpyzperiod<n>`, `tanbumpyoffset<n>`, `tanbumpyzoffset<n>`, `tanbumpyxsize<n>`, `tanbumpyxperiod<n>`, `tanbumpyxoffset<n>`, `tanbumpyysize<n>`, `tanbumpyyperiod<n>`, `tanbumpyyoffset<n>`
*   Added `orientoffset`
    *   It changes the direction the `orient` mod should reference
*   Added `noreorient`
    *   Disables the `orient` behavior optimized for reverse and SCAR families
    *   See bugfixes for more info

### 🐛 Bugfixes

*   Column specific wave works again
*   `ScreenGameplay:SetLife( number )` actually works now
    *   `number` must be a value between 0 and 1 inclusive
*   Theme elements in ScreenGameplay show up correctly again
    *   Most notably the LifeMeter in the itg3 theme
*   Preference `LastSeenVideoDriver` now shows the correct driver in use
    *   The string may have changed from what it used to be
    *   This will make old modfiles using the old Nvidia checker work correctly on dual GPU (Intel+Nvidia) setups
*   Opposite playfield on battle made has been fixed (Is this correct?)
*   Turn mods in `#ATTACKS` actually work as they should now!
    *   Reported and test file supplied by PCBoyGames, thanks!
*   Turn mods for Player 2 (and other aspects of Player 2 in general) in the editor are no longer completely broken.
*   Rainbow effect on BitmapText updates correctly upon theme change
*   SkewY is now properly reset in the editor.
*   `GetRealPath` issue is probably dealt with
*   `GetTapNoteScoresForPlayer` with `TNS_HIT_MINE` fixed
*   `NoteTypeMults` and `HiddenRegions` resets between songs in Course mode
*   Ctrl-O/Reveal in Explorer in Edit mode works for AdditionalSongFolders and AdditionalFolders too now
*   We don't normally do this, but we fixed an issue happening on newer versions of Wine where keyboard bindings weren't detected properly
*   `SetNoteTypeMults` now no longer requires an entry at beat 0 to work properly.
*   Combo above 2147483647 no longer crashes the game.
*   `orient` now reorients itself when when reverse and SCAR mods are enabled.
    *   If you have used orient+reverse before, setting `314% confusionoffset` is no longer required.
    *   Several existing files are dependant of this change, a patch to affected files will follow
*   Fixed substractive scoring calculation
*   `RageShaderProgram:define` now works with `#version` directive
*   Certain edgecases with DrawFunctions resulted in weird rendereing, they are now gone.
*   `tanbumpyxoffset` actually works now
    *   The old behavior was setting `tanbumpyyoffset` instead

### 👾 Known Issues

*   Reloading theme and textures (f3+r) still has the same issues as the old theme switcher

### ❤️ Simply Love changes

We are open for contributions! https://github.com/TaroNuke/Simply-Love-NotITG-ver.-/

*   Metamods! (Under "More Options" in the player options menu)