---
title: "Alpha 4 Build - December 16 2019"
---

*   Fix up NoteField zoom and positioning math for soundwaves.
*   Fix Linux Compile.
*   Fix Mine Rotation.
*   Fix FFMPEG memory leak.
*   Fix Credits with inconsistent shakesoda.
*   Add back select button menu, but also change the presentation of the options themselves to make it more prominent.
*   Set Loading Window Size on Linux.
*   Allow any splash size on windows.
*   Ensure Frame is persistent and not lose data.
*   Fix screengameplay background.lua calling the old func instead of the updated one.
*   Fix splash being width locked.
*   Make Eval's noteskin actors grab from the Stage ModsLevel.
*   Fix making Credit's and Openings work on any Theme's screen height.
*   Fix typing issue with DrawDistanceBeforeTargetsPixels.
*   Fix TapNoteScore\_Attack being invalid by replacing it with a valid TNS.
*   Allow PLayerAI to use Pro Judgments.
*   Remove delete on sharedptr in D3D.
*   Fix any image file extension support for avatars.
*   🐉Update soundman earlier to stop usb cards lagging.
*   Hotfix Crash fixes.
*   🐉Fix Colour Profile on D3D.
*   Fix Input detection on MacOS.
*   Update MacOS App Icon.
*   Fix typo pointed out by shakesoda.
*   Make map controllers screen BG more minimal, strip down overlay on input calibration gameplay.
*   New HD Noteskins.
*   Include new core mediaframeworks into CMake.
*   NSIS and Installer fixes.
*   Fix Lua Compile Warning.
*   Fix Topcap Effects.
*   Add Stretch and shrink holds.
*   Make BitmapText Accept floats and then convert to int to prevent Lua errors.
*   Tweak lifebar and judgment for shake, explain ComboIsPerRow option in theme.