_Windows build was pulled due to bugs._

*   游낼 Fix Shader initialisation being skipped due to new LLW pipeline.
*   Fix Detection returning false when actually true.
*   Added new Delta2019 noteskin (Thanks shakesoda).
*   Fix StepMania 5.0 noteskins to not use .redir files or fall back on assets from Default.
*   Fix SDL init not being set up correctly on older hardware.
*   Fix static linking of libs on windows.
*   Add SDL patchfix to fix input lag.
*   New GLAD renderer pipeline.
*   游낼 Input has been completely rewritten to test controller input.
*   Player 2's keyboard mappings will need resetting to numpad as it sets +-/\* as keys. (This is a hooks bug we will remove).
*   Lua's backend code has been made a little more stable.
*   Removed several cachemiss overflows, an important one being in the math pipe.
*   游낼 Experimental touch support added. (There is no code at the moment, but it is on our roadmap.)
*   游낼 Experimental hotplugging Support.
*   `DrunkOffset` and `TipsyOffset` changed to match their behaviour on NotITG v4; the previous versions have been renamed to `DrunkSpacing` and `TipsySpacing`.
*   `HiddenRegions` has been added
*   Optimise old ssc code from NoteDisplay.
*   Add option for hiding the mascot character on the title screen in Soundwaves
*   游낼 Gatekeeper no longer gets upset on macOS
*   Core input modules are now macOS Sierra (10.12)+ compliant.
*   Sound modules are now 10.12+ compliant.
*   HiDPI is enabled, but the resize window will still fail on a resize if the computer has 2 monitors. (known bug)
*   Memory usage display on renderer stats overlay now functions on macOS.
*   Fix clock errors.
*   游낼 Remove DirectX code from the game on Windows.
*   Fixed edge case heap crash on Windows caused by game controllers.
*   Fix bad Xinput crash on Linux.
*   Fix lag on gameplay on Linux.