---
title: "StepMania 5.0.7"
---

StepMania 5.0.7; release notes compiled and Markdown formatted by [@kyzentun](https://github.com/kyzentun):

### This is divided into two sections:

*   Player visible changes: New configuration options players should try out,
*   Themer visible changes: New (optional) screens that themes can support, new metrics or lua functions, or fixes for existing functions.

Items are roughly grouped into the general part of StepMania they fit into.

Player visible changes:
=======================

Loading Time:
-------------

Simfile loading and caching has been changed internally to speed up loading  
time. If you're using an SSD, or only have a few hundred songs, you probably  
won't see any difference. People with large song collections who don't have  
SSDs should be able to measure the difference.  
Most of the changes are aimed at making StepMania read song data from the  
cache and not look in the song folder until gameplay if the cache file  
exists. To take full advantage of this, you should have the Fast Load  
preferences set to true.  
There are new things to help simfile authors deal with cases where the cache  
file is out of date.  
Because this release bumps the cache version, the first time you start up it will  
rebuild the cache, which takes some time.

### Reload current song:

Pressing Ctrl+Shift+R on Select Music will reload the currently selected song  
from its song folder, updating any cached information.

### Never Cache List preference:

The NeverCacheList preference has been added to Preferences.ini. You can use  
it to set song group folders that should never be cached. The preference is  
set to a comma separated list of group names. Because it disables the cache  
for the songs in the groups listed, it should only be used sparingly, the  
cache is important for loading quickly.  
Example: `NeverCacheList=work_in_progress,abandoned_in_progress`  
This will cause the songs in the `work_in_progress` and `abandoned_in_progress` groups to never be cached.

Delete songs from Select Music:
-------------------------------

Pressing Ctrl+Backspace on the Select Music screen will prompt you to  
_permanently_ delete the currently selected song.  
The Allow Song Deletion preference must be turned on in the Advanced Options section of the service menu for this to be enabled.

Edit Mode:
----------

*   ### Autosave:
    
    The song is automatically saved every 5 minutes if there are any changes.
    
*   ### EditClearPromptThreshold:
    
    When clearing an area with the Alter menu, if the area contains at least  
    `EditClearPromptThreshold` notes, you will be prompted. It's a preference  
    that is settable in the Advanced Options section or in the Options in Edit  
    Mode. Setting it to `-1` means it will always prompt, setting it to `1000000`  
    will make it never prompt.
    
*   ### Per-chart music:
    
    Each chart in a simfile can have its own `MUSIC` tag, pointing to a music file  
    to use instead of the normal song music. This does not change the logic for  
    when the song ends in gameplay. The time of the last step of any chart is  
    still used as the time to end the song in gameplay, so if you use per-chart  
    music, make sure your music is the same length.
    
*   ### Preview tag:
    
    Simfiles can have a `PREVIEW` tag which tells StepMania to use a specific file  
    for the preview instead of the song music file. When you set the preview tag, the length of the named file will be used to set the sample length. After that, the sample length can be adjusted as normal. The sample start is forced to 0 when the preview tag is used.
    

Preferences:
------------

*   HarshHotLifePenalty:  
    Normally, if your life bar is full (1.0), and you get a judgment that would  
    decrease it, 0.1 is taken off your life bar even if the penalty would be less  
    than 0.1. If `HarshHotLifePenalty` is false, then the penalty is used instead  
    of 0.1.

General:
--------

*   ### DX9 support:
    
    DX9 support improved, giving a large speed boost and fixing the problem that  
    made people get stuck with 16bit color. \[xwidghet\]
    
*   ### Mutable actions:
    
    Pause/Break key now toggles "action" sounds off or on. There is also a  
    button in the F3 debug menu for people that don't have a Pause/Break key  
    (press A, there are so many that it is off the bottom).
    

CMake:
------

This only affects people building from source. StepMania has moved to using  
CMake as the primary system for generating project files. This saves us the  
trouble of keeping several different project files updated. Read  
Build/README.md for instructions on using CMake to build.

Language changelog:
-------------------

To make life slightly easier for translators, a language changelog has been  
added in Docs/Changelog\_language.txt.

Themer visible changes:
=======================

*   Bug fixes are marked with \[B\].
*   Functions are marked with \[F\].

### ActorFrame:

*   \[B\] Fixed `RemoveChild` and `RemoveAllChildren` Lua functions to delete the  
    children instead of leaking memory.

### ActorFrameTexture:

*   \[E\] Example added to Themerdocs/Examples/Example\_Actors/.
*   \[B\] Various bug fixes.

### BitmapText:

*   \[B\] Place characters of right-to-left alphabets correctly.  
    (untested) \[roothorick\]

### Font:

*   \[B\] Asserts and other things that caused StepMania to crash on font  
    mistakes now emit non-fatal errors.

### Global:

*   \[B\] `foreach_ordered` lua function now works on tables that have both number  
    and string keys. Number keys are iterated over first.

### PaneDisplay:

*   \[B\] Changed to print an error when metrics or player number are omitted instead of  
    crashing.

### RageTexture:

*   \[F\] `GetPath`

### Screen:

*   \[B\] Fixed crash when AddInputCallback is passed `nil`.

### Song:

*   \[F\] `GetPreviewMusicPath`
*   \[F\] `ReloadFromSongDir`