StepMania 5.1.0 Alpha; release notes compiled and Markdown formatted by [@kyzentun](https://github.com/kyzentun):

Keep scrolling down for 5.0.10 stable release
=============================================

This alpha release is primarily for noteskin authors and theme authors who  
are interested in creating noteskins or using the new features.  
If you are not a noteskin author or theme author, you probably do not want to  
use this 5.1.0 Alpha release.

Compiling:
==========

The 5\_1\_0 branch uses submodules for some external dependencies like ffmpeg,  
so they are not bundled. As a side effect, if you click the "Download ZIP"  
button on github to get a source zip, you will not be able to build that zip.

If you are not compiling from source, you can ignore this section. The linux tar.gz attached to this release was built for amd64 debian.

To get around this problem, these are the steps for fetching the 5\_1\_0 branch source:

    git clone --depth=1 -b 5_1_0 https://github.com/stepmania/stepmania.git
    cd stepmania
    git submodule init
    git submodule update
    

(if someone wants to submit instructions for doing the same with a gui,  
gui instructions can be added.)  
The `--recursive` flag is not used in the clone command given above  
because some submodules like cppformat have their own submodules that are not  
needed for building or running stepmania.

After the submodules have been updated, compiling can be done in the same way  
as on the master branch of stepmania.

New systems:
============

The new systems in this alpha release are not in their final form. They will  
be extended and modified based on feedback from noteskin and theme authors  
who create new content. Keeping the systems simple and allowing new people  
to learn them gradually is one of the goals.

RollingNumbers:
---------------

This is the simplest one, so it is explained first. The changes to  
RollingNumbers were more of an attempt to improve it than a serious rewrite  
like the other new systems. Changes to RollingNumbers are fully documented  
in Docs/Themerdocs/5.1\_incompatibilities/RollingNumbers.md.

### Feature Overview:

*   More lua control: Various things that could only be set through metrics  
    can now be set by calling lua functions.
*   Attributes: The attribute system from BitmapText is used, giving more  
    freedom than the multiply color metric.
*   Configurable leading glyph: Any glyph can be used as the leading character  
    for the number. This is for people that don't want zeroes in front.

NewSkins:
---------

A new noteskin system has been created. The goals of the new system are to  
provide a solid base for future development, clear out cruft, remove metrics  
from noteskins, and provide more advanced features.  
The new noteskin system is fully documented in NewSkins/default, which is an  
example noteskin explaining all the features and demonstrating some of them.

### Feature Overview:

*   Pure lua: The metrics system is outdated and tends to obstruct advanced  
    authors trying to handle varied cases. The NewSkin system does not use  
    metrics at all. Everything is done in lua.
*   Not tied to game types: A NewSkin can be used in any game type, as long as  
    it supports the buttons used by the current chart.
*   Adjustable column width: The NewSkin controls how wide each column is and  
    the padding on the sides of each column. The hardcoded values from the  
    Style are ignored, and will be removed in a future version.
*   Quantizable holds: Hold bodies can be quantized the same way taps are, if  
    the noteskin author uses the feature.
*   Superior quantization: Quantizations are not forced to fit the traditional  
    categories of 4th, 8th, 12th, 16th, 24th, 32nd, 48th, 64th. Instead, notes  
    are quantized using a system based on how many times a quantization occurs  
    each beat. The simfile format and internal note data structures are still  
    limited, but the noteskin system is not.
*   Receptor warnings: The receptors are told when the next arrow is coming,  
    even if it's off the bottom of the screen, so the receptor can warn of  
    upcoming notes by changing color or something.
*   Superior multiplayer support: The NewSkin system does not force a hard  
    limit of 2 players, and noteskin authors are encouraged to support as many  
    players as feasible. Edit mode and gameplay will need upgrades before  
    more than 2 players is really possible, but the NewSkin system is prepared.

NewField:
---------

NewField is a completely new notefield system. It gives the theme more  
control over every aspect, and is self contained.  
Initial documentation is in  
Docs/Themerdocs/5.1\_incompatibilities/NewField.md.

### Feature Overview:

*   Columns are actors: Each column is its own actor, with extra features.
*   More info for Notefield board: The Notefield board file in Graphics should  
    be a lua file now. It is passed more info to make using it for a screen  
    filter easier. Using the notefield board for a screen filter makes  
    positioning logic much simpler because the themer doesn't have to worry  
    about the current style or how many players there are.
*   Better multiplayer support: The NewField does not pull anything from a  
    global player state. Instead, all behavior is set by whatever creates the  
    NewField, or by the theme. It will not be an obstacle to having more than  
    2 players. Many other parts of the engine still stand in the way of  
    multiplayer, but the NewField is prepared.

ModValue:
---------

The new notefield system also has a completely new modifier system. This is  
extensible, predictable, and documented. Figuring out exactly what a  
modifier does no longer requires digging through ArrowEffects.cpp. Detailed  
control over exactly what the arrows do is possible.  
Full docs in Docs/Themerdocs/5.1\_incompatibilities/NewField\_mod\_system.md.

### Feature Overview:

*   Field mods separate from Column mods: The field and the columns have  
    different mods, for doing different things.
*   Per-column mods: Each column can have its own mods.
*   Mods for more things: FOV, vanish point, field transform, column  
    transform, note transform, note/explosion/receptor glow/alpha, time offset,  
    quantization, reverse offset, reverse, center.
*   Separate glow and alpha: Glow and alpha are controlled by different mods  
    because the white flash that hidden/sudden force in the old system bothers  
    some people.
*   No hidden quirk interactions: In the old mod system, C600 + Boost plays  
    differently from M600 + Boost. That's just weird and wrong, so the new  
    system does not do that.
*   Splines are mods: The spline mod system added last Christmas was not well  
    integrated with the old mod system because the old mod system didn't have  
    a place for it. So there were weird interactions between the two that made  
    splines awkward to use. Splines are part of the design of the new system,  
    so they are much easier to use now.
*   Mods are equations: At its simplest, a mod is an equation that takes one  
    aspect of a note as input (say, y offset) and sets an attribute based on  
    that aspect (say, x position). Possible equations range from simple  
    numbers to wave functions and splines.
*   Detailed control: Building on the idea of using equations for mods, there  
    are many minor variables that can be set when creating a mod to customize  
    exactly how it affects the notes.
*   Built in timed mods: The columns and field have managers built in that can  
    be told when a mod should start and end. The manager efficiently handles  
    turning mods on and off at the right times.
*   Rate adjusted mods: Mods are tied to the current time of the field, so  
    when the music rate changes, mods play out at exactly the same beat. This  
    relieves the burden of writing lua code to find the current music rate and  
    try to adjust tween times, or forcing people to only play on 1x rate.

### Options screen:

Because the modifier system does not use PlayerOptions, large parts of the  
options screen do nothing. Mods that change the steps in a chart like  
Shuffle work the same, but mods that change the appearance of notes like  
Dizzy do nothing. This is because the system was not designed with OptionRow  
in mind (I hate OptionRow, it can't do anything I want to do, I don't use  
it).  
Instead, the NewField relies on the theme to set mods through lua  
function calls when ScreenGameplay starts. To assist themers, \_fallback  
provides functions for setting speed, tilt (distant), mini, and reverse by  
reading them from PlayerOptions. There are also functions for setting hidden  
and sudden mods (with control over exactly where the line is, and only  
affecting note alpha. So no white flash), but they do not read from  
PlayerOptions and must be called directly.  
A future version will probably use lua option rows and a global lua variable  
to store the mod choices from the options screen before applying them on  
gameplay.

Todo:
=====

*   Adapt the new mod system so that it can be used on any actor, not just on  
    the notefield and notes.
*   Create lua option rows to assist themers putting newfield mods on the  
    options screen.
*   Address the problem that prevents using the spin effect on mine notes. The  
    notes need some efficient way for the effect clock to be tied to the time  
    passing in the notefield, instead of being tied to PLAYER\_1 or PLAYER\_2.
*   Add stuff that edit mode needs, like drawing beat bars and timing segment  
    info.
*   Write proper entries in Lua.xml for all the new functions. The  
    documentation in Docs/Themerdocs should be a supplement to Lua.xml.

Things on the way out:
======================

Old NoteField related stuff:
----------------------------

NoteField, NoteDisplay, ArrowEffects, NoteSkinManager, and (most of)  
PlayerOptions will probably be removed in the next release.

Styles
------

It would be nice if both players were not forced to the same style.  
Everybody tries to skip past style select quickly, so it seems obstructive.  
If player's aren't forced to the same style, and the noteskin controls column  
widths, what point does the style have? Changing between styles on music  
select is already possible in more advanced themes. This will cement that,  
and allow more freedom when picking what to play next.